# Senior-Design
Gatech Spring 2016 Senior Design Files

This repository contains code for the 2016 Senior design project team. The executive summary is below. 

The Smart Educational Music Instrument (SEMI) is a Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) controller inspired by the circular nature of musical relations, the circle of 5ths. The buttons on the controller are arranged in three concentric circles of twelve to signify the twelve notes in three different octaves of standard western tonal music. The controller has a wide range of potential applications. It could both assist a novice in developing intuition about music theory, and also provide a novel, inspirational control scheme for experienced musicians. To achieve this goal, SEMI will have two modes of operation: “Free Play Mode” and “Guidance Mode.” In both modes, a user can either plug any MIDI compatible instrument or use the 36 music buttons on SEMI itself to play notes that will be captured and sent to a computer via USB. 

In free play mode, SEMI will process the incoming note information, either from the SEMI buttons or from another MIDI controller such as a traditional piano-like keyboard, MIDI guitar, or wind controller. An algorithm running on the SEMI (or possibly a host computer, such as a laptop) will estimate the musical scale1 being used, and light up the corresponding buttons that signify the notes in the estimated scale. Different color, intensity, and/or blinking pattern schemes could be used to indicate which scale notes are harmonically similar, i.e. in likely chord structures built from the notes currently being played. The LEDs under the buttons will light up whether an external MIDI controller or the buttons on SEMI itself are used. Advanced users will have the option of using the SEMI simply as a unique controller potential in live performance.

Guidance Mode will allow the musician to choose preset musical lessons that will teach music theory topics such as chord progressions, scales, and various songs. For the prototype, we will focus on songs available in the public domain. Future commercialization opportunities might include licensing popular songs, analogous to the licensing of songs for ringtones and sheet music. Individual users may also choose to use our software to analyze their own MIDI files as an aid to learning those songs. 	

Additionally, both modes will allow the user to use a computer to capture and save all the MIDI outputs via USB, to be edited or played by any desired musical composition software such as “Ableton Live.” The SEMI could also be used simply as a “light show” demonstrating what notes or scales are being played by either sequencing software or the musician using another controller. The expected outcome of the design is a fully functional prototype that will cost approximately $940.45.
